---
toc: true
title: 'Master Program in Information and Communication Technology at Chalmers'
date: 2024-03-04
show_date: false
read_time: true
last_modified_at: 2024-03-04 
category: blog
header:
  teaser: /images/foo-bar-identity-th.jpg
tags:
  - teaching
---

Since April 2023, I have assumed the role of director of Chalmers Master Program in
Information and Communication Technology (**MPICT**), and now it is time to advertise again the
program to our Chalmers bachelor students. 

I have collected here some useful information for our students, which complement the ones
available on the excellent program [program website](https://www.chalmers.se/en/education/find-masters-programme/information-and-communication-technology-msc/)

## The goal of the program 

We live in a digital society, which is built on our ability to produce, transfer, store, and process
digital information, i.e., bits.
This program prepares you to become a digital-information engineer within the broad information and
communication (ICT) sector, 
We will provide you with both the analytical skills and the applied knowledge
required to imagine, design, and build the digital systems of the future.

## The information and communication technology sector at a glance 
So what is the **ICT sector**? It is good for you to know about it because, with very high
probability, it will be the sector you will work in after you will leave Chalmers. 
It is dynamic sector, that evolves at an extremely rapid pace! Fastest growing sector in the Gothenburg region (Västra
Götaland), where we have a world-class ecosystem consisting of large companies (Ericsson,
Saab, Volvo, CEVT,...), as well as small companies and  start-ups. Currently, we have about 700
start ups employing around 15000 people in the region. 
This implies that there is a strong demand for ICT engineers.

## The information and communication technology sector in Chalmers educational offer 

Let us dig a bit deeper into ICT: what are the current challenges, the ones you will most
likely encounter during your professional life?
Let me highlight 6 technologies around which most of challenges, but also
opportunities lie: 

- **Digitalization**: companies want to digitalize/automatize their processes,
and benefit from customers data
- **Augmented reality**: disruption in how people will interact with each other, both
in private and work sphere, as well as how they gather information and learn?
- **Wireless communications beyond 5G**: with  its enhanced and ubiquitous
connectivity and integrated localization and sensing will become part of many applications including smart infrastructures and
autonomous vehicle.
- **Internet of things**: a myriad of wirelessy connected, low-cost sensors will be
integrated in a network computation fabric, yielding real-time autonomous and
distributed decision systems.
- **Cyber security**: Digital transformation is prone to cyber attacks. How shall we
defend it?
- **Artificial intelligence**: how to make AI replace humans in certain tasks?
Secure, explainable, fair

These
technologies will shape the future we will leave in. But in which measure, it is still
unclear. Here are some relevant questions: What will be the applications everyone will use in the next 5
years? Who will own them? 


Many master programs at Chalmers prepare you for a career within ICT, by focusing on a
subset of these technologies. For example, MPSYS, by highlighting the control perspective, exposes you to
the first 3 challenges. If you are interesting in hardware aspects related to next
generation communication infrastructure, then MPWSP is a great choice for you. MPALG takes
a software perspective, and exposes you to cyber-security, AI, and digitalization
challenges. Finally, if AI is what you are interested in, we have the data-science
program.
MPICT is the only program, to the best of my knowledge, that exposes you to all these 6
technologies. 
Why is it good to be broad? Well because you will most likely change jobs multiple times
during your professional life and will move from one challenge to the next.
Furthermore, innovation often happens at the boundaries between
technologies. So it is good to see all of them if you are interested in disruption and
innovation (for example start-ups)!
# The MPICT program plan at a glance
The MPICT program entails 5 compulsory courses to get an overview of the current ICT challenges and a very 
broad selection of compulsory/elective, elective/courses to dig deeper into your favorite
technology. 
To help you with your selections, the program is organized into the following 3 tracks:

- Digital communication systems: theoretic, algorithmic, and practical aspects of digital
  communication systems 
- Intelligent information processing: at the intersection of signal processing, sensing,
computer vision, and machine intelligence
- Cognitive autonomous networks: network design and automation, security aspects 


# Unique features of the MPICT programs

As it is common for most programs at Chalmers, the MPICT program trains students in problem solving
and critical thinking.
Team work and presentation skills are honed through different dedicated moments in both
compulsory and compulsory/elective courses.
What's unique is that students will be in close contact, if they wish, with a world-class
academic and industrial research environment. 
Also, the MPICT teachers belong to one of the largest research division in Europe in the field of
information and communication technologies: plenty of industrial contacts, as well as 
many academic and industrial PhD positions available for the one of you who are interested in doctoral studies. 

# Additional information 
Here you can see a recorded version of a short presentation I gave to Chalmers bachelor
students this year. 
The slides can be downloaded here. 


