---
title: "Two Marie Skłodowska-Curie fellowships in our team"
date: 2021-04-16
read_time: false
excerpt: "Two postdoctoral researchers in our team received prestigious individual fellowships"
categories:
  - news-post
tags:
  - research-projects
header:
  teaser: /images/grant.png    
    
---

[Dr. Alejandro Lancho](https://www.chalmers.se/en/staff/Pages/Alejandro-Lancho-Serrano.aspx) and [Dr. Khac-Hoang Ngo](https://www.chalmers.se/en/Staff/Pages/ngok.aspx), both post-doctoral researchers in our team, have been recently awarded a [Marie Skłodowska-Curie individual fellowship](https://ec.europa.eu/research/mariecurieactions/node_en) from the European Union. 
Congratulations, Alex and Hoang!

Below, you can read two short interviews about their projects. 
The interviews were conducted by our communication officer at the Department of Electrical Engineering (Chalmers), Sandra Tavakoli.

## Dr. Alejandro Lancho Serrano, project MASCOT

Alejandro Lancho Serrano has been rewarded a global fellowship and will work two years at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the US followed by one yeat at his alma mater, the Universidad Carlos III of Madrid, Spain.

> It feels like a big reward and at the same time a big responsibility. It’s a great opportunity for me as a young researcher to boost my career and reach my future goals. Also, having the opportunity to lead my own project feels very exciting. During the grant, I will explore, from an information-theoretical perspective, the fundamental limits of one of the main types of wireless communications that will dominate in the near future: the asynchronous massive connection to the network of battery-limited devices.

Right now, Alejandro’s research is focused on finite-blocklength information theory applied to a wide range of problems related to wireless communications, such as ultra-reliable low-latency communications, Massive MIMO, the massive connectivity problem, security, and privacy.

## Dr. Khac-Hoang Ngo, project LANTERN

Thanks to being rewarded a European fellowship, Khac-Hoang Ngo can meet his career goal.

>It is a fantastic feeling. This provides me the opportunity to develop my profile in order to meet the requirements to obtain a faculty position. I finished my Ph.D. last year and am now taking further steps in pursuing an academic career. The fellowship comes at a crucial moment when I am eager to broaden my expertise, gain experience and develop my skills.


Hoang will spend the funding on his two-year research project LANTERN: Low-latency and private edge computing in random-access networks, which will be performed at Chalmers.

> In this project, we will investigate how low-latency and private edge computing protocols can be developed in wireless random-access networks. The results of this project will help pave the way to the full realisation of the Internet of Things (IoT) in the near future. With this funding, we will conduct research activities in these directions as well as communicate the research results to different target audiences.
