---
title: "2026-Q1: team updates"
date: 2026-04-14
excerpt: "Papers and presentations"

toc: false 
categories:
  - news-post 
tags:
  - quarter-updates
header:
  teaser: /images/quarter.png
---

# Papers 
The following papers have been accepted for publication:

- D. P. Krishnan, K. Okumus, K.-H. Ngo, and G. Durisi, “Minimum energy per bit of unsourced multiple
access with location-based codebook partitioning (extended version),” in Proc. IEEE Int. Symp. Inf.
Theory (ISIT), Guangzhou, China, June 2026. [<a href="{{ site.baseurl}}/files/2026/krishnan06-02a.pdf"><i class="fas fa-file-pdf"></i></a>]

- J. Naram, Z. Wang, G. Durisi, and R. Jörnsten, “Weighted partial optimal transport for multi-source
partial domain adaptation,” in <em>Proc. Int. Conf. Learning Representation (ICLR), Catch, Adapt, and
Operate: Monitoring ML Models Under Drift (CAO) Workshop</em>, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Apr. 2026.

- K. Okumus, K.-H. Ngo, U. K. Ganesan, G. Durisi, E. G. Ström, and S. R. Pandey, “Type-based unsourced
federated learning with client self-selection,” in <em>Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Commun. (ICC)</em>, Glasgow, U.K.,
May 2026. [<a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.06601"><i class="fas fa-file-pdf"></i></a>]

Furthermore, we uploaded the following paper on arXiv:

 -   K. Okumus, K.-H. Ngo, G. Durisi, and E. G. Ström, “Type-based unsourced multiple access over fading
channels in distributed MIMO with application to multi-target localization,” Mar. 2026. [<a href="http://arxiv.org/abs/2603.01749"><i class="fas fa-file-pdf"></i></a>]



# Presentations 

I've been invited to two workshops over the past few weeks, where I gave the following talks:

- *Prediction-aided sequential communication of individual sequences with distortion guarantees*, [Workshop on Information Theory for Future Networks](https://www.cel.kit.edu/english/2572.php), Mar. 2026
- *Theoretical performance guarantees for partial domain adaptation via partial optimal transport*, Wireless AI and Data Technology Workshop Stockholm, Sweden, Feb. 2026

# Other

- I will be serving as tutorial chair at the IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory, 2027
- I will also help out with the organization of the [Chalmers AI days](https://chalmers.ungapped.io/Issues/e7079b10-0de9-4021-819b-e589ef1f7714?AccountId=20b59847-ab80-44b8-b022-6ca6d2eba525&ContactId=66e30927-0fcd-4848-9ae4-fe7d9039a2d5&IssueId=e7079b10-0de9-4021-819b-e589ef1f7714&ir=fd77b333-3452-4bd3-bfff-1d9f8c2cb2d4), a 2-day conference on artificial intelligence research and innovation at Chalmers






